OKTA-543013 Add Login.gov social IdP (#3731)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-logingov-idp/main/index.md

    * **Default Authentication Assurance Level (AAL)**: Select AAL required. Ensure that this value matches the **AAL value** specified in [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta).
       > **Note:** If you leave the default value, Login.gov requires a user to be authenticated with a second factor: `urn:gov:gsa:ac:classes:sp:PasswordProtectedTransport:duo`. See [AAL Values](https://developers.login.gov/oidc/#aal-values).
    * **Attribute bundle**: Select the default attributes for Login.gov to return during authentication. Select at least **email**, **profile**, and **profile:email**.
    * **Issuer**: Specify a string that matches the **Client ID** value in your Okta Login.gov IdP configuration from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta). Typically, your Okta org URL is used. For example, if your Okta subdomain is `company`, then specify `https://company.okta.com`.

>     * **Certificates**: Upload the public key file you downloaded from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Certificates**: Upload the public key file that you downloaded from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta).
```

>     * **Redirect URIs**: Specify your Okta **Redirect URI** you copied from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta). For example, if you don't have a custom domain, this value is usually `https://${yourCompanySubdomain}.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Redirect URIs**: Specify the Okta **Redirect URI** that you copied from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta). For example, if you don't have a custom domain, this value is usually `https://${yourCompanySubdomain}.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.
```

1. Click **Create test app**.

> **Note:** Login.gov configures the production deployment for you. You can request [Login.gov for a production deployment](https://developers.login.gov/production/) after you finish testing.

## Test the integration

To test your integration, you need to first configure a [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules) to use Login.gov as the Identity Provider.

There are four ways to initiate the IdP sign-in flow:

* [Use an embedded Okta Sign-In Widget](#use-an-embedded-okta-sign-in-widget)
* [Use a custom Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget](#use-a-custom-okta-hosted-sign-in-widget)
* [Use an HTML link](#use-an-html-link)
* [Use the AuthJS SDK](#use-the-authjs-sdk)

### Use an embedded Okta Sign-In Widget

> Okta also offers an easily embeddable JavaScript widget that reproduces the look and behavior of the standard Okta sign-in page for your client app. See [Embedded Sign-In Widget use cases](/docs/guides/embedded-sign-in-widget-use-cases/) for Identity Engine or [Embedded Okta Sign-In Widget fundamentals](/docs/guides/archive-embedded-siw/main/) for Classic Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okta also offers an easily embeddable JavaScript widget that reproduces the look and behavior of the standard Okta sign-in page for your client app. See [Embedded Sign-In Widget use cases](/docs/guides/embedded-sign-in-widget-use-cases/) for Okta Identity Engine or [Embedded Okta Sign-In Widget fundamentals](/docs/guides/archive-embedded-siw/main/) for Okta Classic Engine.
```

> To test Login.gov IdP sign-in with your embedded widget app, navigate to your app's sign-in page and click the **Sign in with Login.gov** option. This option directs you to the Login.gov sign-in page. Use your Login.gov credentials to test the sign-in flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the Login.gov IdP sign-in flow with your embedded widget app, navigate to your app's sign-in page and click the **Sign in with Login.gov** option. This option directs you to the Login.gov sign-in page. Use your Login.gov credentials to test the sign-in flow.
```

#### Embedded widget with Identity Engine

> If you're using Okta Identity Engine, the **Sign in with Login.gov** option is available on the widget after you [create an Identity Provider in your Okta org](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta) and configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). No additional code is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Identity Engine, the **Sign in with Login.gov** option is available on the widget after you [create an Identity Provider in your Okta org](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta) and configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). No additional code is required.
```

#### Embedded widget with Classic Engine

> If you're using Okta Classic Engine, you still need to configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). In addition, you need to add the following code to your Okta Sign-In Widget configuration to display the **Sign in with Login.gov** button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Classic Engine, you still need to configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). Additionally, you need to add the following code to your Okta Sign-In Widget configuration to display the **Sign in with Login.gov** button:
```

```javascript
    config.idps= [
        { type: 'LOGINGOV_SANDBOX', id: 'Your_IDP_ID' }
    ];
    config.idpDisplay = "SECONDARY";
```

> You can find out more about the Okta Sign-In Widget [on GitHub](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget#okta-sign-in-widget). Implementing sign in with an Identity Provider uses the Widget's [OpenID Connect authentication flow](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget#openid-connect).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find out more about the Okta Sign-In Widget [on GitHub](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget#okta-sign-in-widget). Implementing sign-in flows with an Identity Provider uses the Widget's [OpenID Connect authentication flow](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget#openid-connect).
```

> > **Note:** For production environment, use the following Okta Sign-In Widget configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For a production environment, use the following Okta Sign-In Widget configuration:
```

> ```javascript
>    config.idps= [
>        { type: 'LOGINGOV', id: 'Your_IDP_ID' }
>    ];
>    config.idpDisplay = "SECONDARY";
>```

### Use a custom Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget

If your client app uses Okta [redirect authentication](#/docs/concepts/redirect-vs-embedded/#redirect-authentication), then to test the Login.gov IdP sign-in flow, navigate to your app's sign-in page and click the **Sign in with Login.gov** option. This option directs you to the Login.gov sign-in page. Use your Login.gov credentials to test the sign-in flow.

#### Okta-hosted widget with Identity Engine

> If you're using Okta Identity Engine, the **Sign in with Login.gov** option is available on the widget after you [create an Identity Provider in your Okta org](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta) and configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). No additional configuration is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Identity Engine, the **Sign in with Login.gov** option is available on the widget after you [create an Identity Provider in your Okta org](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta) and configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). No additional configuration is required.
```

#### Okta-hosted widget with Classic Engine

> If you're using Okta Classic Engine, you still need to configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). In addition, you need to customize your [Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/custom-widget/main/#style-the-okta-hosted-sign-in-widget) to display the **Sign in with Login.gov** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Classic Engine, you still need to configure the [routing rule](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cfg-routing-rules). Additionally, you need to customize your [Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/custom-widget/main/#style-the-okta-hosted-sign-in-widget) to display the **Sign in with Login.gov** option.
```

Add the following code beneath the `var config = OktaUtil.getSignInWidgetConfig();` line in the **Custom Sign in** tab:

```js
config.idps= [
  {type: 'LOGINGOV_SANDBOX', id: 'Your_IDP_ID'}
];
config.idpDisplay ="SECONDARY";
```

> > **Note:** For production environment, use the following code beneath the `var config = OktaUtil.getSignInWidgetConfig();` line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For a production environment, use the following code beneath the `var config = OktaUtil.getSignInWidgetConfig();` line:
```

If something is configured incorrectly, the authorization response contains error information to help you resolve the issue.

The Okta Identity Provider that you created generates an authorize URL with a number of blank parameters that you can fill in to test the flow with the Identity Provider. For example:

```bash
https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/v1/authorize?
  idp=${yourIdPId}&
  client_id=${clientId}&
  response_type=${responseType}&
  response_mode=${responseMode}&
  scope=${scopes}&
  redirect_uri=${redirectUri}&
  state=${state}&
  nonce=${nonce}
```

> **Note:** If you are using Authorization Code with PKCE as the grant type for your client app, you must generate and store the PKCE. See [Implement authorization by grant type](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/authcodepkce/main/#flow-specifics). Okta recommends that you use the [AuthJS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#signinwithredirectoptions) with this grant type.

In the URL, replace `${yourOktaDomain}` with your org's base URL, and then replace the following values:

> * `idp`: Your `${yourIdPId}` value you obtained from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `idp`: Your `${yourIdPId}` value that you obtained from [Create an Identity Provider in Okta](#create-an-identity-provider-in-okta).
```

> * `client_id`: Use the `${clientId}` value that you obtained from your OpenID Connect client application. This is not the **Client ID** value from the Identity Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `client_id`: Use the `${clientId}` value that you obtained from your OpenID Connect client application. This isn't the **Client ID** value from the Identity Provider.
```

* `response_type`: Determines which flow is used. For the [Implicit](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/implicit/main/) flow, use `id_token`. For the [Authorization Code](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/authcode/main/) flow, use `code`.

* `response_mode`: Determines how the authorization response is returned. Use `fragment`.

* `scope`: Determines the claims that are returned in the ID token. Include the scopes that you want to request authorization for and separate each by a space. You need to include at least the `openid` scope. You can request any of the standard OpenID Connect scopes about users, such as `profile` and `email`, as well as any custom scopes specific to your Identity Provider.

* `redirect_uri`: The location where Okta returns a browser after the user finishes authenticating with their Identity Provider. This URL must start with `https` and must match one of the redirect URIs that you configured in the previous section.

* `state`: Protects against cross-site request forgery (CSRF). Can be any value.

* `nonce`: A string included in the returned ID token. Use it to associate a client session with an ID token and to mitigate replay attacks. Can be any value.

> > **Note:** When Okta sends the authorize request to Login.gov, it adds the required `acr_values` based on the type of identity verification you specified in the Login.gov IdP configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When Okta sends the authorize request to Login.gov, it adds the required `acr_values` based on the type of identity verification that you specified in the Login.gov IdP configuration.
```

For a full explanation of all of these parameters, see: [/authorize Request parameters](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#request-parameters).

Create a link that the user clicks to sign in. The HREF for that link is the authorize URL with your specified values. For example:

```html
`<a href="https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/v1/authorize?idp=0oaaq9pjc2ujmFZexample&client_id=GkGw4K49N4UEE1example&response_type=id_token&response_mode=fragment&scope=openid&redirect_uri=${yourAppRedirectUrl}&state=WM6D&nonce=YsG76jo">Sign in with Login.gov</a>`

```

After the user clicks the link, they are prompted to sign in with Login.gov. After successful sign in, the user is returned to the specified `redirect_uri` along with an ID token in JWT format.

### Use the AuthJS SDK

> If you don't want pre-built views, or need deeper levels of customization, then you can use the same AuthJS SDK that the Sign-in Widget is built with. See the `idp` option in the [AuthJS SDK GitHub repo](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#usage-guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want pre-built views, or need deeper levels of customization, then you can use the same AuthJS SDK that the Sign-In Widget is built with. See the `idp` option in the [AuthJS SDK GitHub repo](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#usage-guide).
```
